Create cPP_Lifecycle.adoc (#8)
biometricITC/Administration: cPP_Lifecycle.adoc

= cPP Lifecycle for the Biometrics Security iTC
:showtitle:
:toc:
:toclevels: 3
:table-caption: Table
:imagesdir: images
:revnumber: 0.1
:revdate: 2020-08-11
:xrefstyle: full

:iTC-longname: Biometrics Security
:iTC-shortname: BIO-iTC
:iTC-email: isec-itc-bio-info@ipa.go.jp
:iTC-website: https://biometricitc.github.io/
:iTC-GitHub: https://github.com/biometricITC/cPP-biometrics
:iTC-ITname: BIT

== Introduction

> As part of the normal work of the {iTC-shortname}, new iterations of the cPP and SD will be released over time. Ideally, when a new version of the cPP is released, everyone would immediately follow the new version, but of course this is not possible as it takes time to transition to updated requirements.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As part of the normal work of the {iTC-shortname}, new iterations of the cPP and SD will be released over time. Ideally, when a new version of the cPP is released, everyone would immediately follow the new version, but this is not possible as it takes time to transition to updated requirements.
```

> The purpose of this document is to specify the lifecycle for the cPP versions, providing guidance on when a new version will supersede earlier versions (when the previous version is no longer considered acceptable for use) and how this will be announced to the wider community.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The purpose of this document is to specify the lifecycle for cPP versions, providing guidance on when a new version will supersede earlier versions (when the previous version is no longer considered acceptable for use) and how this will be announced to the wider community.
```

> The purpose of this document is to specify the lifecycle for the cPP versions, providing guidance on when a new version will supersede earlier versions (when the previous version is no longer considered acceptable for use) and how this will be announced to the wider community.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The purpose of this document is to specify the lifecycle for the cPP versions, providing guidance on when a new version will supersede earlier versions (i.e., when the previous version is no longer considered acceptable for use) and how this will be announced to the wider community.
```

> The purpose of this document is to specify the lifecycle for the cPP versions, providing guidance on when a new version will supersede earlier versions (when the previous version is no longer considered acceptable for use) and how this will be announced to the wider community.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The purpose of this document is to specify the lifecycle for the cPP versions, providing guidance on when a new version will supersede earlier versions (when the previous version is no longer acceptable for use) and how this will be announced to the wider community.
```

[NOTE]
====

> While the document talks about cPP revisions, this covers the cPP, SD and any other related documents.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
While the document talks about cPP revisions, this covers the cPP, SD, and any other related documents.
```

====

== Revision Classes
There are three classes of revisions to a cPP that can be produced. The descriptions are not meant to be exhaustive, but to represent the level of changes in the document.

.Revision Classes for a cPP
[cols=".^1,.^1,.^4",options="header"]
|===

|Revision Class
|Version Position
|Description

|Major
|**X**.y.zz

> |Full update to the cPP, including requirements changes (addition or removal of requirements)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|Full update to the cPP, including requirements changes (i.e., addition or removal of requirements)
```

|Minor
|x.**Y**.zz

> |Update to the cPP, likely updating existing requirements, but not changing them (i.e. not adding/removing requirements)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|Update to the cPP, likely updating existing requirements, but not changing them (i.e., not adding or removing requirements)
```

|Technical Decision or Errata
|x.y.**ZZ**

> |Application of Technical Decisions to the cPP (no other changes)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|Application of Technical Decisions to the cPP with no other changes
```

|===

=== Revisions & Branches

> The {itc-shortname} maintains 3 primary branches for the creation of the cPP and all supporting documents. Of these branches, two will be used to maintain the current versions of the documents while the third is used for active work on new updates.

Reviewer: 3 branches, or 2?

Author: We have 3, master, develop (or sometimes working) and interpretation. But only master and interpretation are applicable for the "current" version. The develop branch is for working on the next release, not "quick" edits like interpretation, and of course the master is the "official" release.

Reviewer: Got it 👍 . Should we add a row in the table for develop/working/etc. ("other")? If so, description might be something like:  _Other branches not explicitly named are used for in-progress development work toward new revisions or TDs. Work in these branches is considered unofficial._

Author: @gfiumara Check out the latest paragraph above the table now. I have added some text there to make it clear that only the two branches in the table are the ones that "matter"

.Branches & the Latest Documents
[cols=".^1,.^1,.^4",options="header"]
|===

|Branch
|Versions
|Description

|Master/Main
|**X**.**Y**

> |This is always maintained at the last Major.Minor release and is the "official" published version.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|This is always maintained at the latest Major.Minor release and is the "official" published version.
```

|Interpretation
|x.y.**ZZ**
|This branch will be updated for each TD that is published and is a rolling update for all approved TDs between Major.Minor updates.

This branch can be used in place of Major.Minor + TDs if the validating scheme approves all TDs.

|===

The {itc-shortname} may approve errata updates on a periodic basis to officially roll TDs into a published release depending on the number of TDs and the time before the next full update.

== Revision Transitions

> When a new revision will be published, it is immediately available for use. So if version 1.1 is released, it can be immediately used for an evaluation. To ensure a common direction and basis for evaluation within the community, the release of a new cPP revision means that the previous revisions must be retired from active use.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When a new revision is published, it is immediately available for use. So if version 1.1 is released, it can be immediately used for an evaluation. To ensure a common direction and basis for evaluation within the community, the release of a new cPP revision means that the previous revisions must be retired from active use.
```

> When a new revision will be published, it is immediately available for use. So if version 1.1 is released, it can be immediately used for an evaluation. To ensure a common direction and basis for evaluation within the community, the release of a new cPP revision means that the previous revisions must be retired from active use.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When a new revision will be published, it is immediately available for use. To ensure a common direction and basis for evaluation within the community, the release of a new cPP revision means that the previous revisions must be retired from active use.
```

> The transition period is a time of overlap when multiple revisions of the cPP may be used for an active evaluation. The transition periods are determined by the type of revision being published. At the end of the transition period, the previous revision will be sunset, or retire and no longer be considered acceptable for new evaluations (evaluations already in process may still be completed).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The transition period is a time of overlap when multiple revisions of the cPP may be used for an active evaluation. The transition periods are determined by the type of revision being published. At the end of the transition period, the previous revision will be retired and no longer be considered acceptable for new evaluations. Evaluations already in process may still be completed after the transition period for a revision has concluded.
```

> The following table specifies when the previous revision will be sunset/retired and the new revision takes precedence.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following table specifies when the previous revision will be retired and the new revision takes precedence.
```

.Transition Periods 
[cols=".^1,.^1",options="header"]
|===

|Revision Class
|Transition Period

|Major

> .2+|6 months after the new revision is published

Reviewer: Is it standard practice in other PP for major and minor updates to be on the same retiring schedule? I would have thought minor might be more rapidly adopted, presuming the changes are things that essentially could be made on the fly.

Author: For CC, yes, that has been the case. At one point it seemed like it would not be (a few years ago), but the reality is that the pace of work is slow enough (and the time it can take for vendors to plan new versions) that shorter periods on the minor releases is likely to cause problems. NIAP, since they produce a lot of the PPs today, has a standard 6 month sunset period after a new update is published. For simplicity I have just expected to follow this, and so far no one has thought differently (I pulled this from documents I have been working on for all iTCs to build from, and the times I have asked, there is general consensus on the 6 month timeline regardless of version).

====

=== Major & Minor Transitions
The practical implication of this transition period is that there should only be a 6 month overlap with multiple versions being available for use. The following diagram illustrates the time periods, showing the months from the initial release of v1.0 through to v2.0.

[#transitions]
[ditaa,transition,png]
....
/----------------------------\
|  cPP v1.0     cRED         |
\----------------------------/

                    /-----------------------\
                    |  cPP v1.1   cBLU      |
                    \-----------------------/

                                   /----------------------------\
                                   |  cPP v2.0    cGRE          |
                                   \----------------------------/

0                   12       18    22       28         Months
*-------------------*--------*-----*--------*------------------->
v1.0                v1.1           v2.0                Release

>                              v1.0           v1.1       Sunset

Reviewer: Just to use one word consistently.
```suggestion
                             v1.0           v1.1       Retire
```
